README.md, before:

# Builder: a dynamic data generator for skyline queries

Builder is currently implemented to run only in an **Unix-like** environment.

Generator of dynamic data following the structure of a sensor net. For the relations between the data Kossman skyline generator was used.

## Set up ##

#### Install python 2.7 ####
* Ubuntu/Debian:
```sudo apt-get install python2.7```
* Fedora:
```sudo yum install python2.7```
* Arch:
```sudo pacman -S python2```

#### Install pip through package manager ####
* Ubuntu/Debian:
```sudo apt-get install python-pip```
* Fedora:
```sudo yum install python-pip```
* Arch:
```sudo pacman -S python2-pip```

#### Python dependencies ####
* numpy
```pip install numpy```
* python resources <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-resources/0.3>

#### Unix dependencies ####
* sort
* split

## Usage ##

### General options ###

For getting a specific dataset:
~~~~~
builder [options] -o <outputfile> -s <size> -d <dimentions>
~~~~~

For getting a dataset randomly generated:
~~~~~
builder  -o <outputfile> --autodataset
~~~~~

For getting a tiny dataset (ideal for test):
~~~~~
builder  -o <outputfile> --autotiny
~~~~~

### Specific options ###

```option```                 | Function
-----------------------------| -------------
```v```                     | verbose output
```time```                 | specify the simulation time. By default is a random number between 0 and 1800
```interval```                 |  interval of time in which poisson parameter is defined. Example: --poissparameter 2 --interval 120 means 3 arrivals every two minutes. Default is five minutes
```arrivals <num>```       | sepcify how many arrivals per tuple will be generated by default poisson distribution is used
```poissparameter <num>``` | poisson parameter to use when generating arrival events. The parameter specifies average arrival events per minute (defaut is a random number between 1 and 10)
```poissarray <string>```  | specify a string containg poisson parameters separated with an '%' (used when different poisson parameters will be used to generate arrival events) example: --poissarray 5%2%10 for 3 dimentions
```testcases <num>```      | generate different testcases according to the same file
```leavereport```          | leave a report file describing the parameters used to create the testcase(s)
```leavesettings <file>``` | leave a report similar to that generated with leavereport but adjusted to the Dynasty Algorithm input. The report will be appended to the file specified
```expirations```          | specify when a value expires for each dimention. This value will not affect testcases generation, but will be used for report and written to settings if --leavesettings option is indicated. Input is a string containg expiration values separated with an '%'. Example: --expirations 5%2%10 for 3 dimentions
```resume  <file>```       | resume execution from specified tmp file
```events_per_line <num>```      | in some cases it is better to have many events per line rather then just one. That way many events can be written to memory per each disk reading. To adjust to just one event per line set this to 1. By default 5000 events per line are used.
```dontdelete```           | keep kossmann tmp file (default is delete the file)
```autodataset```          | generate medium to small random parameters for the entire dataset (to generate a quick and dirty dataset for tests)
```autotiny```             | like --autodataset but generating a tiny dataset (to generate a quick tiny dataset for control)
```anticorrelated```       | use anticorrelated data distribution
```correlated```           | use correlated data distribution
```uniform```              | use uniform data distribution (default)
```distributearr```        | data distribution refers to arrivals (default)
```distributedim```        | data distribution refers to dimentions
```independentdims```      | if specified dimentions will have actualizations indepently, by default all dimentions arrive in a single event.


## Contributors ##

**Simon Bolivar University**, 2013-2014. Stephanie Alibrandi 09-10020@usb.ve, Sofia Bravo. 09-10114@usb.ve.

Commit message:

Fix issue #1 with static dimentions

README.md, after:

# Builder: a dynamic data generator for skyline queries

Builder is currently implemented to run only in an **Unix-like** environment.

Generator of dynamic data following the structure of a sensor net. For the relations between the data Kossman skyline generator was used.

## Set up ##

#### Install python 2.7 ####
* Ubuntu/Debian:
```sudo apt-get install python2.7```
* Fedora:
```sudo yum install python2.7```
* Arch:
```sudo pacman -S python2```

#### Install pip through package manager ####
* Ubuntu/Debian:
```sudo apt-get install python-pip```
* Fedora:
```sudo yum install python-pip```
* Arch:
```sudo pacman -S python2-pip```

#### Python dependencies ####
* numpy
```pip install numpy```
* python resources <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-resources/0.3>

#### Unix dependencies ####
* sort
* split

## Usage ##

### General options ###

For getting a specific dataset:
~~~~~
builder [options] -o <outputfile> -s <size> -d <dimentions>
~~~~~

For getting a dataset randomly generated:
~~~~~
builder  -o <outputfile> --autodataset
~~~~~

For getting a tiny dataset (ideal for test):
~~~~~
builder  -o <outputfile> --autotiny
~~~~~

## Output

The generator will create 3 output files using de prefix you specified
 with the `-o option`:
 * `PREFIX_dyn` : A file with dynamic event tuples
 * `PREFIX_static` : A file with raw kossmann static dimention data
 * `PREFIX_joined` : A file with joined dynamic and static tuple events
 (this is probably the one you want.)

`PREFIX_dyn` and `PREFIX_joined` contain tuples with the generated elements
 for the simulation which are, in order:

 1. A timestamp for when the event is produced
 2. The event type: 1 for updated value (or new arrival), 0 for expirations
 3. The id of the tuple on which the event is produced
 4. The values of the tuple (unless the event is an expiration, in which case
  only timestamp, type and id will be given.)

### Specific options ###

```option```                 | Function
-----------------------------| -------------
```v```                     | verbose output
```time```                 | specify the simulation time. By default is a random number between 0 and 1800
```interval```                 |  interval of time in which poisson parameter is defined. Example: --poissparameter 2 --interval 120 means 3 arrivals every two minutes. Default is five minutes
```arrivals <num>```       | sepcify how many arrivals per tuple will be generated by default poisson distribution is used
```poissparameter <num>``` | poisson parameter to use when generating arrival events. The parameter specifies average arrival events per minute (defaut is a random number between 1 and 10)
```poissarray <string>```  | specify a string containg poisson parameters separated with an '%' (used when different poisson parameters will be used to generate arrival events) example: --poissarray 5%2%10 for 3 dimentions
```testcases <num>```      | generate different testcases according to the same file
```leavereport```          | leave a report file describing the parameters used to create the testcase(s)
```leavesettings <file>``` | leave a report similar to that generated with leavereport but adjusted to the Dynasty Algorithm input. The report will be appended to the file specified
```expirations```          | specify when a value expires for each dimention. This value will not affect testcases generation, but will be used for report and written to settings if --leavesettings option is indicated. Input is a string containg expiration values separated with an '%'. Example: --expirations 5%2%10 for 3 dimentions
```resume  <file>```       | resume execution from specified tmp file
```events_per_line <num>```      | in some cases it is better to have many events per line rather then just one. That way many events can be written to memory per each disk reading. To adjust to just one event per line set this to 1. By default 5000 events per line are used.
```dontdelete```           | keep kossmann tmp file (default is delete the file)
```autodataset```          | generate medium to small random parameters for the entire dataset (to generate a quick and dirty dataset for tests)
```autotiny```             | like --autodataset but generating a tiny dataset (to generate a quick tiny dataset for control)
```anticorrelated```       | use anticorrelated data distribution
```correlated```           | use correlated data distribution
```uniform```              | use uniform data distribution (default)
```distributearr```        | data distribution refers to arrivals (default)
```distributedim```        | data distribution refers to dimentions
```independentdims```      | if specified dimentions will have actualizations indepently, by default all dimentions arrive in a single event.


## Contributors ##

**Simon Bolivar University**, 2013-2014. Stephanie Alibrandi 09-10020@usb.ve, Sofia Bravo. 09-10114@usb.ve.
